Speaker A
So the way that this works is, okay, so let's say that you are a, you know, let's say you're an API error collection, okay? You have an array of errors, right? And you want to be able to be iterable yourself. So you have an array, but you're an object. You have an array as a child, but you also want to be iterable yourself. So one way to do this is you can define your each method in Ruby and that's what allows you to be iterable. And then you can manually call like, errors each and then pass the block and do all the nonsense you need to do, okay? And so that's when we do it that way, you're manually writing each method that you want to forward over to your child, but with def delegators. You just write def delegators and you tell it what child and then you tell it what methods you want to forward and it just handles the forwarding for you. That's nice. It's really nice. And so this is like an additional tool that you get that enables you to share implementations quickly and easily and specifically also, like, you can share only specific messages or forward only specific messages down to children and that's specificity do the whole thing. Yeah. And that specificity is going to be key to using this in a maintainable way. Absolutely. And then Ruby doesn't have any kind of if you want to hear the.

Speaker B
Rest of this episode and all of our even numbered episodes, you can subscribe to our Patreon. Subscribing to the Patreon gives you access to our entire back catalog the rest of this episode, and future private episodes. We use the money from the Patreon to pay for things like editing costs, hosting costs, and other incidentals. Our podcast is sponsor free and we'd really love to keep that way. Details on how to become a supporter are in the show notes or you can visit Fatalairror FM go.

