Speaker A
This is Taylor Montgomery and you are listening to the Quiet Storm. All right, let's kick the show off. Welcome to Fatal Error. I'm Chris. And I'm, sirous. And and we have a special guest this week. We have a very special guest for the Patreon. We brought kind of a more light hearted episode this week. This is my girlfriend, Taylor. Hi, everyone. You maybe heard her on the Apple event bonus episode where we joked from animoji and stuff. You maybe heard how to pronounce iPhone X? We learned how to pronounce iPhone X in that episode. I don't know if that made the cut, but as follow up here, does iPhone Eight do the animoji thing, too? It'll display them, but it doesn't have the dot projector. So you can't so you can only make these on iPhone X. Let's talk about how savage Apple is. Apple is the most savage company. How so? Well, you know, they only allow other Apple users to get the cool blue bubbles, and then they make anyone who's not using an Apple product have, like, the most outrageously, obnoxious neon green bubble. It's not a very pleasing color to them. No, it's not. They do that shit on purpose, for sure. That is true. Yeah, but we're not here to talk about Apple stuff. We're here to talk about the Internet of shit. Now, to be fair, Apple's coming out with some Internet connected home devices, like the HomePod, which is still supposed to come out this year, right? And no one really knows anything about it. Yeah, I think they said December. We'll see if that thing actually comes out. And they also have a HomeKit, and we're going to be talking about HomeKit in a little bit because it's all right. That exists. It's sort of relevant to this story, and then it will be more relevant to the story later. So it's going to come up. Do we want to start with listing smart home devices that are in our respective apartments? Why don't we just list every smart home device that exists, and then we can start from there? I want to go to sleep at some point. Okay. What do you have in your home there, Christopher? What do you got? Smart home devices in my home? Let's see. I have a couple of Sono speakers sprinkled around the apartment, and these are not the smart ones. Although something just arrived this week that I've not set up. I got one of the new Sonos ones that you can talk to. So it has the Amazon lady in the tube built in that's sitting in a box. I haven't set it up yet, but that'll be a smart home device. I have three Echo dots in the apartment, so I can ask every morning. I ask when's my first meeting and what's the weather? And that's pretty much all I use those things for and to figure out what flights are overhead. Oh, that's right. Yeah. What airplanes are no, wait, that's not shit. Cancel. Stop. Hask aircraft radar. What's nearby? That's it. Okay. Crafts are nearby. An Airbus A 321 231 from Los Angeles, 12 miles northeast at 33,000ft, heading east. A bomber. Chris. Chris row can do that, too. That's really cool. But it also seems pretty problematic for someone with the bazooka. Well, this data is just out there. This data is already out there and heading due north, available in much more useful forms already. And I have at Christmas time, I have an Internet connected plug that I plug my little mini Christmas tree into. I can ask to we're going to have to bleep so much in this episode. So I can ask to turn the Christmas tree lights on and off. That's really nice. And that's all, that's what I've got. Nice. So what we have in our house when we need to do the weather, usually Taylor asks me and then I ask this happens maybe three rouge is the smartest of all this. Happens maybe three of five weekday mornings is taylor says, hey, what's the weather? And I say, what's the weather? Sorry. Hey, dingus, what's the weather? And then she tells the weather, and then both of us can hear it, so I don't have to repeat the weather. Fortunately, I should also have mentioned that I have several devices and it's not that good. Yeah, it's not great. Is better for things like weather. Yeah. I mean, battle of the blondes, right? Now, do we know that she's blonde? I like to imagine that she's blonde. She sounds like a blonde. She could be, I think of brunette, but maybe a brunette could be. But the main smart home thing that we have in our house is we have a set of three Wimo light switches. I wish you could just see me put air quotes around light switches astray so are all the lights in your apartment hooked up to this? No, thank God. No. But it is only a matter of time, Chris. I will get to that part of the story. So basically the way this works is you take out your normal light switch that you just flip on and off and you can insert a computer. It works reliably all the time. Thank you so much. And then you can replace it with a computer. And as we all know, computers are not as reliable. And the way it works is it's a button, and you hit the button, the lights come on. You hit the button again, the lights go off again. I need to stress the air quotes around all of these things. You quote, hit the button and the lights come on unquote sometimes. I'm sure that works. Yeah. So basically the dream here is in addition to being able to push the button to turn lights on and off, you can also connect to it from the Wimo app or other connected services in order to basically control the lights from places that aren't standing next to the light switch. That actually works surprisingly well. Yeah. So that's the sort of dream of what I wanted. We have six light switches in our house, and three of them have become these sort of WeMo light switches. Monstrosities. Yeah. So basically, when we moved in here, I said, Taylor, I've always wanted to do some smart home stuff. These are the things that I think are totally useless. Sometimes people have it set up to where when the sun sets, the lights come on. And, like, that shit never works, frankly, because there's other people in your house. Like, the lights go off at 03:00 a.m. Like, other people may be awake. Like, people are coming in out of your house. That stuff doesn't work. But what I thought would work is I'm in bed and I want to turn off the lights from bed. That seems like a very slam dunk use case. The dream is obviously does seem reasonable in the morning. The dream is my automatic curtains pull themselves up. Circle of Life from the Lion King. Soundtrack Starts Immediately playing And I'm awakened by these jungle rhythms. That's the dream. Someday everything you see will be yours. First of all, it was the Sahara. At no point in time was there ever a jungle. It was the savannah jungle with Timona Pumba. Yeah, that was after the song. They lived off the grid, but the circle wasn't happening in the savannah in the jungle. It's happening in general. Such a good movie. That's the dream. I know I can't attain that dream today. So where I want to start was just I want to push a button in my bed. In theory, you can get close to that dream today. I don't know about the automatic curtains. Certainly you can do the music, go through the horror that we've been through with this current light set up. It's traumatic. And then you can tell me at the end of the episode if you think it's realistic to have music automatically and curtain automatically open at a certain time of day. Okay. All right. The other thing that's going on in this apartment and the other reason that I thought this apartment would be particularly good for this is you know how some apartments, they have light switches that aren't connected to any lights, but instead they're connected to outlets? Yeah, I have some of those. Yeah. The idea is you plug in a lamp into that outlet, you leave the lamp always on, and then you can use the light switch to flick the lamp on and off. Human being. Yeah. This is a very normal setup. So the problem is that we have no lights in our dining room, living room. And so anytime you came in, you hit the button or you flip the switch, the regular light switch, and it turns on the foyer light. But then if you want to turn on the light in the dining room and the living room, you would have to walk over there and either push a button on the ground or twist a button or twist like a knob to turn the light on in those two rooms. If you don't, it's just really dark in there. It's not great. Again, I want to stress, even though you had to do a little bit of extra work, it was reliable. It worked 100%. The light come on. So I was thinking the best thing would be is if I can put in a Wimo light switch for the foyer switch, push that button, and then have Wimo like plugs automatically activate themselves when that happens. This does seem like a textbook use case. Yeah. Our apartment had a deficiency in it and I sought to fill this deficiency with technology. So what we have now is we have three Wimo light switches and we have two plugs that are connected to the two lamps in the living room and the dining room. So I have just a quick sort of practical question. These light switches, are they wired into power too, to draw power, or are they powered by like solar or, I don't know, energy, kinetic energy somehow? So there are no they are wired in and it requires a specific setup of wires in order to make this thing work, basically, because current has to be going through it all the time. And the way it's set up is if you flip the switch, current is no longer going through it, then it stops working. So you have to check to make sure your light switches work with this style. Ours, fortunately, did. Most of them do. It's a weird setup when it doesn't work with it. Yeah, I feel like maybe the setups where you have two different light switches that control the same thing right. Are the problem. Yeah, that gets even weirder and even worse. The other thing we will add is the kinetic energy thing that is real. The Hue light switches, when you click them, there's a little piezoelectric thing in there that charges itself every time you click the button, which is pretty cool. But that's not how these work. These connect to WiFi, so they're like they draw a lot of power. You're renting your apartment, right? That's right. So at some point you're going to have to undo all of this. Yes. Each one is about 30 to 45 minutes of work, probably the same, to take it out. Not bad. I shocked myself once. Pretty normal. This is one thing that keeps me from doing this in my apartment, is like, I know I'm going to have to undo it at some point. And I don't know, I'm lucky enough that I have an outlet controlled or a switch controlled outlet in every room. So I have lamps plugged in and that's how it should be. And if I weren't in a place that I knew I was going to move out of in one to four years, I'd be more motivated to put in smart light switches and things, but I'm just not right now. Yeah, I mean, I was like, this is an afternoon's worth of work, and I'll get the benefit for a year, so it's worth it. That being said, with the amount of trouble that we've had with it, which we'll go into with the amount of trouble we've had with it, it's a mixed bag, right? So I install these light switches, and there are several problems that crop up. The first one is that basically, like, our fios hookup is on the far side of the living room, and our bedroom is on the complete other side of the house. And I had an airport extreme. And you would think, I mean, it's really not more than 50ft, would you say? Yeah, 50ft. We live in New York. Yeah. It's a small apartment. It's not a big apartment. It's 50ft. And the router would not reach from the end of the apartment to this switch that was in the bedroom. And it also wouldn't reach to our beds, which was also very annoying because we'd be sitting in bed and we want to play on the Internet, and it just wouldn't reach. So your laptop would be cutting out, your phone would fall to LTE. It would be horrible. So to solve this first problem, I spent $350 on an Eero setup. And so now I have €3 to cover this 1000 square foot apartment, which on their website, they recommend €1 per thousand square feet. I don't know if our walls are made of lead or faraday cages or what's the problematic in a different reason. If we're just living in this lead apartment, don't lick the floor. It'll be fine. Don't lick the paint. Don't eat the paint chips. But we have €3, and now, for the most part, those work. That's good. I recently went through I want to validate with a third party here. Would you say the Euros more or less work? Yeah, actually, I never really kind of felt the lack of the Internet beforehand. I realize now how much more you rely on the Internet than I do. And how much more, I guess, juice you need. I mean, Dang, he is the snobbiest person when it comes to the Internet. He has this little website he checks called what's it called? The Fast. Yeah, fast. He'll go into a hotel, he'll check fast. And it's a very thing you have to do on 75. What is it? Megabytes. I'm running fast. We're getting 60 right now, which is we're supposed to be getting 100. Wait, you're running a speed test and you have both Skype and a FaceTime audio call going right now? And he has the nerve he has the nerve to be like, well, we're supposed to be getting 100, but you know my name is. I mean, we are supposed to be getting 100 and this is reporting 53 megabits fine. Are you supposed to be getting 100 megabits on Fios? Shouldn't you be getting, like, much faster than that? We have 100 up, 100 down. Okay, yeah, I wish I had 100 up. It's pretty good. I've comcast cable, I get 150 down and like, 20 up. Yeah, that's good, that's fine. You don't need upload as much as you need download is the practical. Truly. I feel like you guys need to have an episode on net neutrality because this of an information sensor. Yeah. So I got, eros the laptops were cutting out while we were in bed. Like, you would be sitting in bed and the internet would cut out. Chris for my last year of law school, I was in London and I spent the entire year on the WiFi of the pub next door to me. You did do that. My threshold for enjoyment is low. I visited and I was like, what is this? I didn't know you lived in London. We should talk about that at some point, too. We should, but yeah. So my threshold glow. I'm glad I don't have to go up to the pub every three months and get the change of password. That's true. And we were recording this podcast and I ended up having to run an Ethernet cable from the other side of the apartment just so we could record because the Airport Extreme wasn't cutting it. Now with these eros, we've been more or less fine. I haven't had to run that Ethernet cable, which has been nice. So the first problem was the WiFi wouldn't reach all the way and for some reason, when these belkin wimos fall off, the WiFi, they just stop working. They do the clicking. You would expect the clicking, like, that should just work because it's just hardwired into the wall. They don't and they just stop working. You push the button and nothing happens. You're not even talking about, like, remote controlling a WiFi. No, I'm talking about pushing the button and it's hardwired into the mainframe. And still has managed. And just still has managed. At this point, I have to am convinced. It's like WeMo being malicious as hell. It's crazy. It's like, so firmware. Yeah, serious has so much, like, hooked up. I don't know how to run any of it. He went to a conference one time and left me home by myself for, like, five days and the wimo stopped working on day one. She was just sitting in the dark. I was sitting here in the dark. I was sitting in the dark. I don't know how to work anything in my apartment. So that's not even the end of like because you can't take them out of the wall. You have to get power tools out and break down the wall. Now, sir, didn't you sirish, isn't there a Mac mini in running some software that you configure with JSON or Python scripts or something involved here, too. Is there a Mac mini? There's absolutely a Mac mini. That's the next part of the story. Sorry. Yeah. Didn't mean to rush us here. No, not at all. So here's what's going so now the next problem is now that the WiFi switches pretty reliably work, I want to connect them so that when you hit the foyer switch, the living room and the dining room both light up automatically. Okay. That was the whole point of this project. So I assumed IFTA would be able to help me here. So I go in, I set up an IFTA thing, and I say, okay, when this switch goes on, turn this on, turn that on, and when this off, I'm going to guess that that worked after between zero and 15 minutes. Ding, ding. You are absolutely correct. Um, so I didn't actually realize that it was taking so long to work because I kept pushing the button and nothing would happen. Oh, my gosh. It was so funny. You would press a button, you would forget that you were supposed to have another light on. Then it would flick on, but you would already push the button off. So it would flick off again, and it would be very confusing. Someone will come into the four year, someone will be in the living room. You'll try and shut the light off. The light will stay on, and then, like, ten minutes of later, it'll just kind of flicker off while you've moved on to the next room. Like, we have a gun. Yeah. The lights are just flickering themselves, basically while we're watching TV, and we have no idea what's going on. You forget how many times you've pushed the button. So at that point, they've just stored that on off, like kind of mechanism. But it's taking so long to upload it to the system that at that point, the lights just have independent will. It's almost like because it just continues doing whatever they want, kind of flickering motion off and on. So I didn't even realize what was going on until I hooked up push notifications. Because you can do push notifications through the if. It's an app. And then I realized I was getting the push notifications, like, eight minutes after I pushed the button, and I read that's, what's going on? So I was like, okay, clearly Ifsita does not have the latency that I need to make this thing work. Is there no way to just tell WeMo to do this directly? This seems like a thing. Now, I don't want to overstep here, but it seems like you might want a light switch to control multiple lights. Yeah, so you would think that, but there's absolutely no affordance for that. The Wimo app does give you some rules. You can set a schedule, which is, like, basically, like, you can set it to sunrise sunset. You can set up an auto off timer, and you can set up a custom action for long press. That's basically all you can do. Can you set up your custom action for long press to be turned on all the I tried that. It didn't work. You can't do that. Disappointing. At this stage, I'm pretty upset because I've spent probably $150 on these lights, which is like $40 to $50 each. I've installed them all manually, and they are not doing the thing that I want. So, if I'm keeping track, you spent all this money and so far you've managed to replicate normal light switches. That's right. Only some of the time. Only some of the time. So then it's time for the next step, which is, okay, well, I need some software that's running that will be able to manage these automations for me. And there's a piece of software called Home Assistant. We'll toss this in the show notes and what it is we talked about Python last week. It's a Python Three application that you need to run on a computer or a raspberry pi or whatever. And what it will do is it has all these different modules for Hue, switches, for Wimo, switches for coffee grinders, all kinds of internet of things. Bullshit. And what it will do is basically you have this configuration file, it's YAML. And you write your little what should happen when things like when events occur, like what state should be changed? And you write this configuration file. And then this basically more or less does what you want it to do. Totally reasonable. That's right. So it's Python Three, so you can't use Pip to install it. You have to use Pip Three to install it. How do you get pip? Well, you need Pip three. You need well, because it's Python Three, you can't use Pip to install it. You have to use Pip Three to install it. How do you install pip? Three. You got to use pip. How do you install pip? You got to use Easy Install. So it's like this huge chain of dependencies. So eventually I got everything installed, I got everything working. The automation does actually work. And things are going good. Yeah, things are going smoothly. You push the button and within usually less than a second. Usually, no, it's good. Usually, though, it's not like a guarantee. If it doesn't happen in less than a second, it doesn't happen at all. That's actually reliable. You know, something's gone wrong. It's not like you have to wait 5 seconds to see if that turn on better. At least sometimes you just don't have lights. And you know what? When it works, I'm tricked for Living in 2017. That's right. When it works, I'm tricked into thinking that that one light switch actually does control the other two light the other two lamps, even though what's actually happening is going over WiFi, hitting this server. The server is running a bunch of code, doing this automation, and then sending signals back out over Wi Fi again to these other lamps. So I'm tricked into thinking that this actually does work, which is nice. Does that process involve any trips out to the Internet, or is it totally on your local network? I'm pretty sure it's totally local. You can set up Wimo by default, does work from different places. And so if Taylor is traveling, she will sometimes troll me by turning off the lights in the office while I'm working. It never gets old. It never gets old for her. You can see what lights are on in the apartment so I can know where he is, kind of mess with him and follow him around the apartment. It's slowly turning lights off. So he has to be in the dark like I am whenever he leaves and the lights stop working because I don't know how to get them fixed again. So she mentioned that these can break, right? So how do they break? So the version I started with was like home assistant zero point 230, point 23 is fine. I did an update to 00:24 that was also fine. But as soon as you hit 00:27, the Wimo stuff, after a certain number of hours, a nondeterminate number of hours, it just stops. It just stops detecting Wimo state changes. Just doesn't want to, just doesn't feel it. And you would have to kill the server and restart it. And that's the only way to make no explanation, no reason. Again, I just want to stress we had perfectly fine working life before all of this happened. They were fine. They were fine. You flipped a switch and lights came on. I understand. Taylor, I'm with you here. Basically, the server just stops working every once in a while and it was like about at once a day, maybe a little bit less frequent than that. So I'd have to go in control C and the terminal so bad. It was really bad. Eventually I freaked out that it was because an update and there was some stuff in the home Assistant forums that suggested that's what was happening. So I downgraded back to 00:24 and it was working somewhat. Reliably. Again, when it works, reliably, it's really nice, but it's just like how often does it work? Reliably? It breaks maybe once every few weeks. I just want to comment that even after all of this time and truly heartache, even after all of this heartache got so upset when they would stop working, he'd be like, Wait, why betrayal this heartache? Like three months afterwards when we realized that they were not like efficient, that they were not constant or consistent, he still went out and bought three more. I want to replace the other light switch in our house. Some inexplicable reason he wants to replace the one reliable light switch. I will get to that, okay? I will get to that as well. So basically downgrading this thing more or less worked. So now we have software running on a Mac mini, three light switches that I've installed manually, two switches for lamps, and basically we have something and a brand new Wi Fi Eero router mesh network. And things basically work after how many afternoons and evenings and how much money, I truly like $400 poured into this thing. Okay, so there's that. And then that's not even the end of the software that's running on the server. There's also something else that you can download. All this stuff is open source, which is great. There's another thing you can download. This one's JavaScript, not Python. And it's called HomeBridge. And what HomeBridge does is it will take your Home assistant switches and bridge them to HomeKit. Okay, interesting. So HomeKit is apple's home automation thing. I'm not totally sure even what to call it, and I'm not sure that I know anyone who uses it. So the problem with HomeKit is that everything that is HomeKit enabled has to have a hardware encryption chip. And so you can't retroactively add HomeKit support to a product that's already been released or a product that's already been designed, really. But using this HomeBridge software, you can make it work. That being said, it was so flaky and I didn't need any more flake in my life. And I really could say like, turn off all lights, and she would turn off all lights. And that worked. And that was cool. I was just going to ask, what's the reason for connecting things to HomeKit? What do you get? I wanted to be able to talk and just say, turn off all the lights. And that worked. And it took about probably less than 5 seconds, maybe 3 seconds, and it worked. So when we were going to sleep, I would say turn off all the lights and she would do it. But it was too flaky to really rely on, so I ended up uninstalling it and not having that component. Do you have any devices? No devices. I'm not personally into recording devices in my Home. Taylor, I don't know how you feel. Would you put an Amazon listening device in your Home? Yeah, I'm okay. Thank you. She likes to stay off the radar, I would say yeah, man can't even do global entry. And then there's one more thing I want to add on the HomeKit front, which is that as of iOS eleven, or as of WWDC this year, Apple loosened the rules. So now HomeKit will work with pure software encryption. So theoretically my Wimos at some point should update to where they will have HomeKit support built right in just because you can update the software to enable HomeKit. So that, fingers crossed, is coming. Interesting. Now, will HomeKit allow you to do things like associate a light switch with other lights without having a Mac mini running server software in your Home? If. You want to do that stuff, you either need to have an Apple TV running tvOS, or you need an iPad that's just permanently plugged in and tucked away running iOS. Do you have an Apple TV? I have an Apple TV, but it's an old one. I definitely have old iPads, so I'm not worried about that part of it. I can make that part of it work. And if I have to buy, like, an Apple TV, I might do it. Is that really the solution here? Let's just buy more products? So far, the solution throw hardware at the problem until it's solved. It's a very marco solution. Yeah. So basically where we are now is probably once a week to once every two weeks. Our light switches fail, and when we push the foyer switch, only the foyer light comes on. The other two lights are just dead. Okay. And to fix that to fix that, I have to restart me on a pretty regular basis. Semi regular. Maybe once can we add more wimo? Yeah. So my dream, my intermediate dream, obviously the Lion King thing would be ideal. Oh, my God. My intermediate dream is I also want a smart lock for our door, and I want to be able to say, no siri, shut down the house. And she turns off. Can you imagine if all these problems apply to you actually physically getting in your apartment just for unknown reasons? You're just locked out today. That sounds so bad. Yeah. Carl and your did you see the news today? Amazon has, I guess, some sort of lock thing now, and it pairs with an Amazon camera and it'll let delivery people into your house to drop off packages. I don't have a note big enough for that. I think that would be cool. I do not well, you have a camera so you can see them. I do not want to give this particular multinational corporation that's access to my entire ship. That's true. I am not feeling it. I mean, they're already going to be in charge of our food supply soon. Yeah, that's first Whole Foods, then the world. Yeah, that's right. So that's where we currently are with the Internet of shit in my particular home. Shitty. So not all of your light switches are connected? No. Right. So three of them and there are three that we don't really use. It's the kitchen light. The very kitchen light and the bathroom light. All of them? Well, the bathroom light we can't do anything about because they don't have the right set up. Okay, but what would be these are rooms that there's no you don't need to link them with anything else. I guess you could want to remote control them. If I had bachelor life and I lived alone, I would change those as well. Because the reason we can't do bathroom ones why, though? You live in an apartment that only half works as it is? You've messed it up. You messed up so much. Tough. If I lived a bachelor of life, I would just continue down my self destructive spiral until eventually I just sat in the dark on my own podcast. I'm glad you have someone to just keep you away from the edge. That's right. Okay, so the reason we can't do it in the bathroom is that the bathroom switch is a combination switch and one outlet, and that's the only outlet that we have in the bathroom. So we can't put a wimo there. Thank you. It would fit, but we would lose that outlet, and that would be a problem. So we can't do anything about that. The reason I want to do it is because every night, what happens is we have to walk around the house, turn off all the lights, and then get in bed. And then we know there's some lights we can do from bed, but there's other lights that we can't. So we know we have to get up to do those, and then we also have to get up to lock the door. Most of our lights in our apartment our apartment is not that big. Most of the lights in our apartment are on the way to bed. Two steps for you. I'm just saying, he's justifying his use of wemos by it being such a time saver, but really it's not, because when you pour in the amount of the man hours and the stress, these wemos have you seen the Disney Channel originally, I sat in the dark for nights. Chris with the mom from Married with Children. I just want to be able to talk to my house and say, please. Oh, my gosh. Smart house. And then she eventually tries to take over the family and she becomes a terrorist. That's an exact analogy. She was the antagonist typing here. Smart house. Smart house. Smart house. Disney Channel movie with the married with children mom. What's her name? 1999. Oh, yeah. She's basically the smart house. She controls everything. She falls in love with the dad and then tries to lock the kids in the room. The dad's like a widower or something. It's actually just basically a stepmother story. It actually totally is. I will watch this sometime. This will be my challenge. Oh, my God. Burton Ben Cooper is 13 years old. I remember when this movie came out, I had a huge crush on this kid, and he is 13. That's so weird. Well, but you were eight. Oh, okay. That makes more sense. I didn't realize it was directed by LaVar Burton. That is impressive. I'm looking at this now on you should watch it. There's a scene where he has a house party. 6.3 out of ten on Im, all the cool kids come over his house and they chill at his house party, and they play dance off. Yeah. Peggy Bundy in, like, very quintessential, like, teenage 90s gear. Yeah, it's really something. It's really something. But anyway, I just want to be able to say shut down the house and all the lights would turn off, the door would lock, and I wouldn't have to worry about anything else. That being said, probably not going to happen. Certainly not in the near future. No. Especially given all these experiences. It's just like this shit is just not reliable. It's not good. It sucks, it's crap. It's the Internet of Shit. It's the Internet of Shit. Has it been worth it? You've put a lot of money and a lot of time into this. Are you happy with what you've gotten for that money and time? I'll let Taylor answer first. No, I mean, I think you should answer first. I think everyone knows where I stand. If I said, Taylor, we're taking this stuff out, would you be happy? Or I literally tell you to do that every day. Every single day. I like them. I think that's maybe the and I think this is the more pointed critique. You have suffered all of this heartache and financial drain, and yet still you cannot pry yourself away from the cult. Is this a sunk cost fallacy thing here? No, I don't think it is. Okay, so here's the thing. It's magic. He believes in the dream. He believes in the better life, in the fantasy. So he strives, he works, but he's okay. Here's the thing that Taylor's never really been able to answer. This is now couples therapy, and Chris is our therapist. When the server breaks and the connection between the foyer switch and the two lamps is broken, all you have to do to turn off the lights it's like escalator temporarily stairs. Like that old Mitch, hedberg joke. God bless Mitch Hedberg, right. Rest in peace. They're just temporarily regular lights. And so you have to walk over there. Yeah, that's right. You just have to walk over there, push the button on both of the lamps the same as you would if we didn't have this set up at all. That's not how it works, though. You have to take them out. No, you just push the button, and they're on. With the two lamps. Okay, with the two lamps, that would work. You just have to remove the wimos. But with you or you could push the button on the wimos and that would just it would function exactly as if we had none of this stuff. You have to walk over to the lamp, manipulate the lamp. Yes, I agree. I agree with those two lamps. You're right. You can just turn the wimo off or remove the wimo off. That's not my point. My point is, with the bedroom light and the four year light, you can't do anything. No. You're just in the dark. But those issues are much rarer. The more common issue is that this connection between the two I'm the one who sits in the dark on the weekends because I don't know how to make sense. It turns from green to reddish orange. Right. Like, you know there's a problem because all of a sudden there's, like, glow in the dark. Yeah, that's a separate problem. But I'm saying that the first problem of we want the lights to turn on when you push the button and nothing happens. You could just walk over there to the lamps and manipulate the lamp in some way and turn it on okay. Yes. With those two lights. Yeah. When they break, what happens is you walk in, you Taylor Mongomery walk in, push the button, and then ghost it on the couch in the dark. Instead of doing anything about them, you could walk over and do the same thing that you would do if we didn't have the lights at all. But you don't, because it's really convenient to have those lights turn on when you push the button. No, because also, too, though, you remember when I unlinked them and you got a little upset that I had unlinked them. I remember this very clearly. You said you have to push things on because if you leave one turned off right. Or if you set it off, then we do the four year light, then it won't turn it back on. It's the whole thing where you got you got a little defensive when I try to take matters into my own hands. That's true. So me being like, I want you to be happy with these little Wimos you've created for yourself, I'm trying to step on your toes and I'm in the dark suffering. It's that terrible thing where you're like, no, you can't use this light switch. You have to use that light switch. The other light switch isn't working, in which case you can use this one. Maybe I should just put my foot down and be like, you've had a year and a half to do this. You've had a year and a half to make it work. Personally, I like them, but they're bad. They're worse than our old life. The only thing that's different is that they literally let you know when they're not going to work by turning red and flashing. It mostly works a week. We need to develop it should more than ten step program. And you need to take the first step of our ten step program, and that is admitting that the Wimos are worse. I've admitted on this very episode of this very podcast that the Wimos are unreliable. Okay, but are they worse than our old life? No, because they give us we're still on step one, Chris. We're going to try and make it past good luck. You have to admit that there's a problem. Yeah. The second step is admitting that you deserve better serous you deserve better than these shitty lights that only work half the time. You deserve better than the uncertainty of coming home in the night and not knowing who your lights are going to turn on. So the other question that I have is, like, to get any actual benefit from this, you're running a specific version of this software that you configure with YAML on a Mac mini server in your home? Yes. This is not a normal person. No, it is absolutely not. It is absolutely not. Chris step two is for him to admit that he deserves better. But first we need to get past step one, and it's even worse than that. You have two options. Basically, you can either run it in a command line where you type hash for home assistant and run this always running server, or you can set up a launch agent. And the thing is that if you set up a launch agent, if it fails or crashes for any reason, there's no supervisor, there's no recovery, there's no way to view the state with a launch agent. You can at least tell it like, keep this running, so if it crashes, it'll just restart it. I don't know if you can do that. Maybe you can. You can do that. Okay, maybe I need to look into that. But the point is, if something happens goes wrong with the state of it and it's not detecting the wimos anymore, but the program is still running, there's no insight into there's no button you can press restart this. You just have to restart the whole computer and there's sort of no other options. Have you considered? So I would honestly consider add a launch agent for that service and just have this computer restart itself like every morning at four in the morning. Yeah, that's also an option. I have considered that. Why not? Yeah, I don't know. It's a very problematic relationship that they have. Kind of like this codependent abusive relationship he has with his Wimos. Yeah, I mean, maybe I should just remove the Wimos and see how long Taylor sits in the dark in the dining rooms. In the living room. No. If you remove the Wimos, I can finally function like a normal person and just turn on the lights and have them work and know exactly what I need to do to turn the lights on so I don't have to guess or fanjangle or not do a certain set of algorithms because I know that my boyfriend wouldn't like them. I could just be confident that there's one and there's zero. And if I do one, the lights are on, and if I do zero, the lights are off. Where's the closest switch controlled outlet to the living room and dining room? It's this foyer switch. Yeah. So when you walk into our apartment, there's like a little foyer area and you can hit that light and we have the Wimo set up that when you hit that light, it triggers the Wimo set up to two lamps in our dining room. In our living room. So it just kind of lights up the entire apartment, or at least the most used kind of areas of the apartment. But is there like an outlet that's controlled by I mean, not with the wimos, but just by actual? No, that was the original problem that he was trying to solve. He was like, not even anywhere. Every single outlet, none of the outlets in the entire apartment are controlled by light switches. That does suck. Yeah, you just end up with a dark living room and dining room, and it's horrible. That's basically where our setup is. Is there anything else we should talk about here, Chris? Not really. I'm pretty happy with my light switches that just direct electricity and work 100% of the time. You're truly the one living the dream. Yeah. It must be nice to have light switches that you can just control. Can you maybe have, like, a little individual just tell him that he's being ridiculous. It must be nice to have lights in every apartment, in every room in your apartment. But unfortunately, we don't have that. We all don't have that luxury. Yeah. I don't know what to tell you now. My apartment has other problems. For example, everything but the fridge is on one circuit when you're gaming a little too hard and just everything just shuts itself off. Oh, it's really bad. When the air conditioner kicks on, I have everything in the apartment plugged into UPS's, because when the air conditioner kicks on, the voltage for all of my outlets drops to 100 volts. All my computer, like, battery, backup, power supplies, click on and power everything until the air conditioner is off. That's crazy. Down. I guess at least that works reliably. But that sounds about as complicated as our setup. Well, it does work reliably. That's the only thing it has going for it. So conclusions we've been recording for a little while. Hold on, I'm going to put something in the show notes that it's like this tweet that kind of made the rounds a little while ago. And the caption is when your house sitting for millennials and you ask how the lights work, and it's an imessage bubble that says, yeah, that's kind of annoying. The light is controlled by an app that's called On Switch. Download it and then follow these instructions. Open the app and then just stick it to a device. Get on the stepping stool. Open the cupboard above the code hooks in the hallway. You'll see a white device that like a smoke detector. Press the button in the middle of this device, press it once and should connect the app. Then you just download it to control light switches. Then turn off the light in the bathroom. That should fix it. Sorry about that. Do you think that this is an authentic message, or was this made just for the tweet? A flame? I choose to believe, Chris. I choose to believe. I do. And also knowing how terrible. These set up. I was going to say we are quite as bad as this, but I specifically chose these because I wanted something that if you install hue lamps where the light bulb itself has the WiFi in it, then if you use the light switches and you turn them off, then everything is broken. And I absolutely don't want that. That seems way worse. One of any of this is you should have light switches and they should work. Yeah. You know, whatever happened to the clapper? That's a good question. That's what we need. It's not Internet connected lights on, lights off. Yeah. Clapper. But also, I always thought that that seemed like it would be really annoying. The clapper. Yeah. You know the deal with those things, right? It's actually for accessibility. Yeah, exactly. All that I've seen on TV stuff, the reason everybody's always fumbling is because it's for disabled people, but they don't want to say that it's for disabled people. I did not know that. That was a very well kept secret. If you're in a wheelchair, you have mobility problems. It's really hard to get up and hit light switch. Yeah. Do you think that works more reliably than WiFi connected light switches? Yes. If the commercials are to be believed. I mean both. Yeah. Another good example of this is Snuggies or Slankets were originally for people who are in wheelchairs who are cold, because it's really hard to put on a coat or a jacket if you're in a wheelchair. But if you could just kind of lay the blank on top of the person, they could just stick their arms through. Problem solved. I feel like I wouldn't have given the wheelchair person a coat that looked like a blanket. I would have given the coat that looked like a coat and it was just that button in the back or something. You could have, like, a false theme in the front. You could have a reverse coat. A reverse coat. Like I wouldn't start with the snuggie. Like, I would start with a reverse coat. Either way, that's what they made. That's the Internet of shit. It's really bad and it makes our lives miserable. And yet I think that you perversely. So draw some happiness from the wimos. Perhaps they've served a purpose. All right, we're going a bit long. We should wrap up here. The Internet of shit is bad. The wimos are pretty bad. Euros are fine. Eeros are more or less fine. I recently spent $500 on Enterprise WiFi equipment for My. How'd that go for you? It's been working. Reliably. I wouldn't necessarily recommend that other people do it. Well, why did you get the I'll ask you a leading question. Why did you get the Enterprise grade WiFi gear? So, my apartment is kind of L shaped, and the cable connection comes into my bedroom, which is in the lake at the end of the long part of the L, and so that's where my cable modem is, that's where the router is. And putting a single WiFi router back there does not get a good WiFi signal around the corner of the L to where my office is at the opposite end of the apartment. So you have a semi similar problem to what we had. Yeah, so I need multiple WiFi access points. For a while I had like a for a while I had an Ethernet over power line link to get Internet up to the front of my apartment. And I'd just switch up here and I just plugged things in Ethernet, which was kind of fine, but eventually I got very annoyed and decided that I wanted good WiFi everywhere. So I spent $350 on one of the netgear Orbi mesh WiFi magic things. That the wires that look like a crazy alien spaceship, right? Yeah. And they're the ones that the wire cutter says are the best things. First of all, setting it up took longer than setting up a bunch of enterprise WiFi stuff and the first setup process didn't work. And so I had to go through it again. And then it worked more or less, except when it didn't, I set it up and then a few hours later was listening to Sonos throughout a couple of different speakers in the apartment and the Sonos speakers just started dropping offline and my echo dots were doing me like, oh, I can't connect to the internet thing. And as far as I can tell, the wireless link between these two netgear Orbi units just occasionally shuts down for whatever reason or it goes very high latency or the bandwidth drops to zero or something. So after a couple of days I decided I'm trying to throw money at this problem and it won't go away. And so I decided I'm going to just screw all of this consumer WiFi mesh networking stuff. I bought a Ubiquity router and a couple of Ubiquity access points. I've deployed Ubiquity WiFi and routing and switching gear in much like higher traffic environments before and so I figured this will work fine. So I have two access points, one at the front of my apartment at one end of the L, one at the other end of the L. They're linked with a power line Ethernet gigabit link which works. As previously discussed, everything in this apartment is in one fuse, so there's no circuit breaker in between. I have a solid Ethernet link between these two access points and it works pretty good. Set up reliably. I'm confident that this could handle many, many times the number of devices that I have in this apartment. So the downsides are like this being sort of enterprise oriented WiFi gear, things like UPnP. Does that stand for universal plug and Play or something like that? Yeah, it does. That lets back to my Mac or Plex. Punch a hole through your firewall and through Nat. Doesn't work out of the box. You have to enable that with configuration, that custom configuration file that I think is actually resolved in a new firmware update for the Ubiquity gear, but it's clearly not aimed at the home router crowd where you need the latest and greatest features. But it works really reliably. Like I said, I've had some more Ubiquity gear deployed at my co working space for over a year now with zero issues. It just works. And that's really what I want. Nice. Must be nice, Chris. Must be nice to have things that just work. Yeah, I have solid WiFi light switches that work. Yeah. So the downside is that this cost more money than even the three Eero setup. Yeah. Eeros are expensive and sometimes you'll connect to a bad Eero and your WiFi speeds will just get really slow and you just switch to LTE and it's like, better on LTE. That was a thing with the netgear. That not a thing with the Ubiquity equipment. Like, this just is good. It happens, I would say. Yeah. Maybe again once a week. And it's not so bad. I don't know, Taylor, if it's if it's bad for you, but it's not so bad for me. It's not that bad. I'm guessing Taylor's running fewer speed tests, too. Yeah, I'm also running fewer speed tests. Yeah. Cool. So, as you may have noticed, if you listen to the previous episode, this is the last episode of season three of Fatal Error. Thank you so much for listening. Yeah, thank you to all of you who are supporting us on Patreon. As we've said time and time again, you are making the show possible. You're paying for editing and hosting costs, and we really appreciate that. Yeah. We love you all. You're the best. We're going to take a break and we'll be back in the new year with season four. Season four. Yeah. And we've been discussing how we may want to change format up a little bit, do something a little bit different. We'll see. We're going to think about it and we'll let you know in January. Yeah, we have some odds and ends that are kind of funny and just kind of me and Chris chatting that we may post up as a bonus Patreon episode. And then we also maybe will post one where we sort of discuss a little bit about the potential options for season four and maybe let some of the Patreon people maybe let you all sound off in the comments and let us know what kind of thing you want to hear, what kind of thing you would enjoy. Yeah. So look forward to that. We're not sure exactly when that'll go up, but at some point yeah, we're going to be pretty chill during our six weeks off. And then in the new year, we'll be back and we'll come back strong. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you for listening. Taylor, thanks for joining us for this episode. It's been great having you as a guest. No problem. My pleasure. Yeah. This is super fun. Thanks for hanging out. Yeah. I'm not replacing my lights, which is anytime soon. Cautionary tale. Cautionary tale. Don't do it. Why? A, I'm with you, Taylor. I don't know why you do this to yourself. You know, I didn't really do it to myself. It was done to me. Some people were. I mean, I just don't want to walk across the room and push the buttons for the lights, that's all. Your life is so hard. It is. All right. Bye, guys. Cool. Later.

